Definitions

Files of Interest - Files which may be child abuse material, child erotica, and/or written stories involving sex with children. The files have been previously identified by other investigators and have been identified by their SHA1 value.

SHA1 Value - Secure Hash Algorithm (SHA1).  This mathematical algorithm allows for the fingerprinting of files.  Once you check a file with a SHA1 hashing utility capable of generating this value (the fingerprint), that will be a fixed-length unique identifier for that file.  The SHA1 hash is the current Federal Information Processing and Digital Signature Algorithm.  The SHA1 is called secure because it is computationally infeasible for two files with different content to have the same SHA1 hash value.

Netstat - is a command line tool that displays a list of the active connections a computer currently has, both incoming and outgoing. It is available on Unix and Unix-like operating systems, as well as Windows.

Characteristics of Child Pornography Collectors – Based upon my own knowledge, experience, and training in child exploitation and child pornography investigations, and the training and experience of other law enforcement officers with whom I have had discussions, there are certain characteristics common to individuals involved in the receipt and collections of child pornography:

a.  Child pornography collectors may receive sexual gratifications, stimulation, and satisfaction from contact with children; or from fantasies they may have viewing children engaged in sexual activity or in sexually suggestive poses, such as in person, in photographs, or other visual media; or from literature describing such activity;  

b. Collectors of child pornography may collect sexually explicit or suggestive materials, in a variety of media, including photographs, magazines, motion pictures, videotapes, books, slides and/or drawings or other visual media.  Child pornography collectors oftentimes use these materials for their own sexual arousal and gratification.  Further, they may use these materials to lower the inhibitions of children they are attempting to seduce, to arouse the selected child partner, or to demonstrate desired sexual acts;

c.  Collectors of child pornography sometimes possess and maintain their “hard copies” of child pornographic material; that is, their pictures, films, video tapes, magazines, negatives, photographs, correspondence, mailing lists, books, tape recordings, etc., in the privacy and security of their home or some other secure location, such as a private office.  Child pornography collectors typically retain pictures, films, photographs, negatives, magazines, correspondence, books, tape recordings, mailing lists, images of child erotica, and video tapes for many years;

d. Collectors of child pornography prefer not to be without their child pornography for any prolonged time period.  This behavior has been documented by law enforcement officers involved in the investigation of child pornography throughout the world.